El tiempo "Condicional Perfecto" de la voz pasiva responde a la pregunta: "What would have been done?" / ¿Qué se habría hecho? o "What would have been being done?" / ¿Qué se habría estado haciendo?
1. Presente
The car is washed
The car is being washed
2. Presente Perfecto
The car has been washed
The car has been being washed
3. Pasado
The car was washed
The car was being washed
4. Pasado Perfecto
The car had been washed
The car had been being washed
5. Futuro
The car will be washed
The car will be being washed
6. Futuro Perfecto
The car will have been washed
The car will have been being washed
7. Futuro - going to
The car is going to be washed
The car is going to be being washed
8. Futuro Perfecto - going to
The car is going to have been washed
The car is going to have been being washed
9. Futuro - en pasado
The car was going to be washed
The car was going to be being washed
10. Futuro Perfecto - en pasado
The car was going to have been washed
The car was going to have been being washed
11. Condicional
The car would be washed
The car would be being washed
12. Condicional Perfecto
The car would have been washed
The car would have been being washed
13. Modales
The car (can, could, ...) be washed
The car (can, could, ...) be being washed
14. Modales + have
The car (can, could, ...) have been washed
The car (can, ...) have been being washed
Formas no continuas
Formas continuasWhat would have been done? / ¿Qué se habría hecho?
A house would have been built.
Se habría construido una casa / Una casa habría sido construida
Mr. Benson
would have been elected
chairman of the board if he had been with the firm for over ten years.
El Sr. Benson habría sido decidido al presidente del consejo de administración si él hubiera estado con la firma durante más de diez años.
Your shirts
would have been ironed
if the maid had come yesterday.
Tus camisas habrían sido planchadas si la criada hubiera venido ayer.
It is supposed that your horse
would not have been tamed
if he had been wild.
Se supone que su caballo no habría sido domado si hubiera sido salvaje.
If the cook had learnt the recipe, the bread
would have been baked
properly.
Si el cocinero hubiera aprendido la receta, el pan habría sido horneado correctamente.
Would
Mr. Jones
have been granted
a loan if he had been unemployed?
¿Habrían concedido al Sr. Jones un préstamo si él hubiera estado desempleado?
Would
Ms. Baxter
have been promoted
if she had not been efficient?
¿Habría sido promovida la Sra. Baxter si ella no hubiera sido eficiente?
They
would have been offered
to upgrade their computers if they had paid $500.
Les habrían ofrecido para mejorar sus computadoras si ellos hubieran pagado 500 dólares.
My brother
would have been paid
to fix this microwave if he had had the tools to do so.
Le habrían pagado a mi hermano para arreglar ese microondas si él hubiera tenido las herramientas para hacerlo.