3.8. Parts of the Body - A1/A2 English Lesson

Introduction

Hello everyone! In this lesson, we're going to learn about the parts of the body in English. Knowing these words is very important because:

   It helps you describe yourself and others.
   It's useful when you talk about health and feeling sick.
   It's essential for understanding simple instructions and conversations.

So, let's start learning!

Detailed Explanation with Examples

Let's look at the different parts of the body, starting from the top!

Head:

   Head: The top part of your body.  (Example: I have a headache. My head hurts.)
       Hair: The strands that grow on your head. (Example: She has long, brown hair.)
       Forehead: The part of your head above your eyes. (Example: I have a sweat on my forehead.)
       Face: The front part of your head. (Example: He has a happy face.)

Face:

   Eyes: You use these to see. (Example: I have blue eyes.)
   Nose: You use this to smell and breathe. (Example: I have a runny nose.)
   Mouth: You use this to eat and talk. (Example: Open your mouth, please.)
       Lips: The red parts around your mouth. (Example: She has red lipstick on her lips.)
       Teeth: You use these to chew food. (Example: Brush your teeth every morning.)
       Tongue: You use this to taste food. (Example: Stick out your tongue.)
   Ears: You use these to hear. (Example: I can hear music with my ears.)
   Cheeks: The sides of your face. (Example: She has rosy cheeks.)
   Chin: The bottom part of your face, below your mouth. (Example: He has a strong chin.)

Upper Body:

   Neck: The part that connects your head to your body. (Example: My neck is stiff.)
   Shoulders: The parts of your body where your arms connect. (Example: He shrugged his shoulders.)
   Chest: The front of your body, above your stomach. (Example: He has a strong chest.)
   Back: The opposite of your chest. (Example: I have a backache.)
   Stomach: Where your food goes after you eat. (Example: My stomach hurts.)
   Arms: You use these to hold things. (Example: I have two arms.)
       Elbow: The middle part of your arm that bends. (Example: I hit my elbow.)
       Wrist: The part between your hand and your arm. (Example: I wear a watch on my wrist.)
       Hand: You use this to touch and hold things. (Example: Wave your hand.)
           Fingers: The five parts on your hand. (Example: I have ten fingers.)
           Thumb: One of the fingers. (Example: Give me a thumbs up!)
           Nails: The hard parts at the end of your fingers. (Example: She has long nails.)

Lower Body:

   Legs: You use these to walk and run. (Example: I have two legs.)
       Knee: The middle part of your leg that bends. (Example: I hurt my knee playing football.)
       Ankle: The part between your foot and your leg. (Example: I twisted my ankle.)
       Foot: You use this to stand and walk. (Example: I have big feet.)
           Toes: The five parts on your foot. (Example: I have ten toes.)

Common Phrases and Vocabulary

Here are some common phrases you might hear:

   "I have a headache." (My head hurts)
   "My stomach hurts." (I have a stomachache)
   "I can't see." (Problem with your eyes)
   "I can't hear you." (Problem with your ears)
   "Wash your hands." (Clean your hands)
   "Brush your teeth." (Clean your teeth)
   "Shake your head." (Move your head from side to side)
   "Nod your head." (Move your head up and down)
   "Point your finger." (Show something with your finger)

Vocabulary:

   To point: To show something with your finger.
   To touch: To put your hand on something.
   To shake: To move something quickly from side to side.
   To nod: To move your head up and down.
   To wave: To move your hand from side to side to say hello or goodbye.
   Healthy: Not sick.
   Sick: Not healthy.
   Hurt: When something feels pain.
   Pain: Unpleasant feeling.

Practice Exercises

Exercise 1: Matching

Match the word to the picture. (You can imagine pictures for these words)

Eye  
Hand  
Leg  
Nose  
Ear  

Exercise 2: Fill in the Blanks

Complete the sentences with the correct word.

I use my __ to see.
I use my __ to walk.
I use my __ to smell.
I write with my __.
I listen with my __.

Exercise 3: True or False

Are these sentences true or false?

Your hair is on your foot. (True / False)
Your nose is on your face. (True / False)
You walk with your hands. (True / False)
You have ten fingers. (True / False)
Your elbow is on your leg. (True / False)

Exercise 4: What's Missing?

Look at the picture and say what part of the body is missing (Imagine there is a picture of a face missing an eye.)
In this case a picture of a face missing an eye would show what is missing

Answer Key:

Exercise 1: (You would need to create matching picture for this exercise)
Eye - (Picture of an eye)
Hand - (Picture of a hand)
Leg - (Picture of a leg)
Nose - (Picture of a nose)
Ear - (Picture of an ear)

Exercise 2:
Eye
Leg
Nose
Hand
Ear

Exercise 3:
False
True
False
True
False

Exercise 4: (Needs images so just examples)
A face with no eye* : Eye is missing

Summary

Great job! You have now learned many important parts of the body in English. Remember to practice these words and phrases often. This will help you communicate better and understand more when talking about yourself, others, and health! Keep practicing, and you'll become fluent in no time! Good luck!