5.18. Basic connectors (and, but, or, because, so)

Introduction: Connecting Your Thoughts!

Hello everyone! Today, we're going to learn about connectors. Connectors are like bridges. They help us join our ideas and make our sentences longer and more interesting. Learning these words will make it easier for you to express your thoughts clearly and understand others better. We will focus on five basic connectors: and, but, or, because, and so. These are very common and useful in everyday English!

"And": Adding Information

"And" is used to add information or combine similar ideas. Think of it as "+".

Examples:

   I like pizza and ice cream. (Adding two things I like)
   She is tall and beautiful. (Adding two descriptions of her)
   I went to the store and bought some milk. (Adding two actions)
   Tom is a student and his sister is a teacher. (Joining two facts about two people)

Important note: We usually put a comma (,) before "and" when connecting two long sentences (clauses).

"But": Showing Contrast

"But" is used to show a contrast or difference between two ideas. It shows that something is unexpected or different.

Examples:

   I like coffee, but I don't like tea. (Showing a preference)
   She is rich, but she is not happy. (Showing an unexpected situation)
   It is raining, but I will still go for a walk. (Showing something despite the weather)
   He studied hard, but he failed the exam. (Showing an unexpected result)

Think of "but" as showing a "however" kind of situation.

"Or": Giving Choices

"Or" is used to give choices or alternatives.

Examples:

   Do you want coffee or tea? (Offering a choice between two drinks)
   Is it Monday or Tuesday today? (Asking for clarification on the day)
   You can eat pizza or pasta for dinner. (Offering a choice for dinner)
   We can go to the park or stay at home. (Offering a choice of activity)

Remember: "Or" shows that only one of the options is possible or correct.

"Because": Giving Reasons

"Because" is used to give a reason or explanation for something. It answers the question "Why?".

Examples:

   I am happy because it is my birthday. (Explaining why I am happy)
   She is tired because she didn't sleep well. (Explaining why she is tired)
   The shop is closed because it is Sunday. (Explaining why the shop is closed)
   I study English because I want to travel. (Explaining why I study English)

Think of "because" as answering the question "Why?"

"So": Showing Results

"So" is used to show the result or consequence of something.  It shows what happens after something else.

Examples:

   It is raining, so I will take an umbrella. (Showing the result of the rain)
   I am hungry, so I will eat a sandwich. (Showing the result of being hungry)
   She is tired, so she is going to bed. (Showing the result of being tired)
   He studied hard, so he passed the exam. (Showing the result of studying hard)

Think of "so" as showing "therefore" or "as a result".

Common Phrases & Vocabulary

Here are some useful phrases and vocabulary related to these connectors:

   And: also, in addition, as well as
   But: however, although, even though
   Or: either, otherwise
   Because: since, as
   So: therefore, consequently, as a result

Practice Exercises

Exercise 1: Fill in the blanks with the correct connector (and, but, or, because, so).

I like dogs, ___ I don't like cats.
Do you want coffee ___ tea?
She is happy ___ she got a good grade.
I am tired, ___ I will go to sleep early.
He is a doctor ___ his wife is a nurse.

Exercise 2: Combine the two sentences using the correct connector (and, but, or, because, so).

It is hot. I will wear a hat.  (Use "so")
I like to read. I like to write. (Use "and")
She is sad. She lost her keys. (Use "because")
Do you want to play football? Do you want to play basketball? (Use "or")
He is rich. He is not happy. (Use "but")

Exercise 3: Translate the sentences into English using the connectors.

Я люблю мороженое, но не люблю пирожное. (I love ice cream, but I don't like cake.)
Он устал, поэтому он пошел спать. (He is tired, so he went to sleep.)

(Answer Key below)

Summary

Today, we learned about the basic connectors and, but, or, because, and so. Remember:

   And adds information.
   But shows contrast.
   Or gives choices.
   Because gives reasons.
   So shows results.

Practice using these connectors in your everyday conversations and writing. You will become a much more confident and fluent English speaker! Good luck!

Answer Key for Exercises:

Exercise 1:

but
or
because
so
and

Exercise 2:

It is hot, so I will wear a hat.
I like to read and I like to write.
She is sad because she lost her keys.
Do you want to play football or basketball?
He is rich, but he is not happy.

Exercise 3 (Example Answers - other translations might also be correct):

I love ice cream, but I don't like cake.
He is tired, so he went to sleep.